Anne: You know, my husband
has a very loud voice.
One of the reasons I married him.
I can hear him.
Rene: That's a top secret, by the way, you know...
I met her in the dorms.
Carl: There were basically two criteria
when I was dating:
one, she’s got to have a driver’s license,
because I want to go places and I can't drive.
[music plays]
Anne: Well, I first met
my husband through a friend,
and it's funny because
she was not setting us up.
She did not want us to get together.
But anyway.
I didn't know that she had told him
that I was DeafBlind.
And of course, he was like,
“Well then, how do you communicate with her?
How do you talk to her?”
And then he met me.
And again, I had better vision then,
so I kind of told him about the hearing
loss, but I was still trying to fake it.
We were at a restaurant,
and I think I went into the bathroom
and I bumped into the tray...
...you know, going in.
And then when I came out and I said,
“oh, you know, it's dark in here
I have trouble seeing.”
And he goes, “it's okay.”
And then we started dating and
a few weeks into dating I told him I had
vision impairment that I had, you know...
but I didn't tell him I was legally blind.
And finally a few weeks later
he said, “baby, I know.”
And I'm like, “oh, how did you know?”
Well, he's like, “Nicole told me, first of all.”
He said, “second of all,
the first night I met you,
you were walking out of the bathroom
and you were totally lost.”
He’s like, “you didn't know where
we were sitting, you didn’t know...”
He’s like, “Anyone could tell.”
So that's when I'm like,
okay, I'm not faking it.
[laughter]
I'm not fooling anyone.
Brian: We met online through
a dating app called Match.
And so we started talking
and messaging back and forth.
And we just decided to go on
a first date through a state park.
It was my idea, it was a state park
I've been to before.
Me and my guide dog, we've done the trail
before and know it pretty well.
My wife doesn't have
a lot of experience
with that particular place.
So we went there for our first date and
it was a lot of fun.
You know, it was probably the first time
that my wife met a guide dog.
And so there was a little bit of a
learning curve there.
On our first date
the dog had to use the bathroom.
I lost track of where the poop had landed
so I asked her where the poop was
and trying to find it, I accidentally stepped in it.
So it was a comical first date
and luckily it worked out. We're still together.
It’s been about six years.
Carl: That was back in 2002.
At the time I was working at WGBH
and a friend of hers
who teaches here at Boston University
who I went to high school
with needed access
to a Frontline video
so she could use it in a class.
And I said, “I can get it.”
She said, “I'll tell you what, I'm
going to take you out to dinner.”
So I went out to dinner
and we were in a bar slash restaurant.
And Megan, my wife, who was also
a professor at Boston University
walked in...on another date
and later said to our mutual friend,
“can you give that guy my phone number?”
I, at first, said no
but my friend said,
“oh, Carl it was dark, you didn’t see her,
she has red hair.”
I've got a thing for redheads.
So we went out to a local Irish pub.
We met at 7 o’clock.
and we got kicked out at 1am
when the bar closed, at last call.
We talked about everything.
Politics, religion,
literature, film, history.
I wanted an intelligent woman,
and Megan is incredibly intelligent.
And I did something I had
never done that night.
When we left and departed,
the minute I got home,
I called her right back and said,
“I enjoyed meeting you. Let’s do it again.”
She played the hard to get
and waited like three days,
and I was freaking out for three days
whether I was going to hear from her again.
But I did, and we dated for almost
two years before we got married.
[music plays]
Brian: It didn't really matter to either of us.
I would have been comfortable dating anyone
with any kind of disability or not.
I think the nice thing about my wife
is that she’s a special education teacher,
so she’s pretty comfortable being around
people with disabilities
and working with students with disabilities.
Obviously dating and marrying someone with
disabilities is a whole other ballgame
and I’m an adult and not a kid, so...
our conversations and dialogues are very
different than the ones she's used to in school
but I think it didn't really matter
for either one of us.
Carl: But my wife will tell you
I never talk about it.
And it's frustrating to her for us as a couple
because she doesn't know what I can't
see and what I can’t hear
and when I'm picking up things
and when I'm not.
So we've had to work on our communication.
What I want,
what I don't want, when I want it.
We live in the city here in Boston,
so we have a galley kitchen.
One day she was making tea.
I didn't know it.
I couldn't hear the tea kettle going.
I burnt my hand, you know, I exploded,
“how dare you?” You know...
it’s her house too!
She can make tea.
So, you know, you have to adapt
and you have to reinvent yourself.
And this is probably the fifth or
sixth time I'm having to reinvent myself.
And, you know, Megan
tends to see people
as who they are and not what they are.
Anne: So, you know, we kept dating
and we talked about it some.
And then, you know, his family,
they love me now, but they were like,
“are you sure you can handle marrying
someone who's going blind and who's,
you know, DeafBlind?”
And his friend did
although his friend also warned me about him.
[laugther]
But, you know, we just decided
we were going to do it.
And when we got married,
you know, we talked about having kids.
He was nervous about it.
He thought we should
have genetic testing, so...
[music ends]